Review from ALR's side, iteration 1 (#6)
microROS/design: articles/embedded.md

| W-CONTROL | **Support control-oriented applications**  | MCUs are great for control, and micro-ROS should be as well. This usually means hard real-time performance with low jitter and small response times. |
| W-POWER | **Make low-power modes possible** | MCUs are often used in battery-powered applications, and/or in applications with a large amount of standby time. Therefore, the stack should make it easily possible to save power. |
| W-STATIC | **Use static initialization** | Static initialization is less error-prone, easier to analyze, and shifts memory usage from RAM to flash. It is a requirement for going to very small resource use. |

> | W-BOOT | **Quick boot times compared to native ROS 2 machines** | Microcontrollers provide with the capability of booting very quickly (typically, in the order of tenths of milliseconds or less). This  enhance the existing landscape of ROS 2-native devices which in the best cases, require a few seconds to boot an embedded Linux.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| W-BOOT | **Quick boot times compared to native ROS 2 machines** | Microcontrollers provide with the capability of booting very quickly (typically, in the order of tenths of milliseconds or less). This  enhances the existing landscape of ROS 2-native devices which in the best cases, require a few seconds to boot an embedded Linux.|
```

Author: Thanks @adamdbrw!

> | W-INFOMODEL | **a common interface that facilitates interoperability across different vendors** | An information model for robot devices will facilitate interoperability among modules from different vendors of robot hardware and overall, it would facilitate the integration effort. Within the OFERA project we propose and use the [Hardware Robot Information Model (HRIM)](https://acutronicrobotics.com/modularity/hrim/).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| W-INFOMODEL | **A common interface that facilitates interoperability across different vendors** | An information model for robot devices, adapted by vendors of robot modules, would lower costs of integration of robotic systems. Within the OFERA project we propose and use the [Hardware Robot Information Model (HRIM)](https://acutronicrobotics.com/modularity/hrim/).|
```

Reviewer: (Or any other rephrasing to avoid repeating too many of the same words)

|-----|------------------|--------|-------------|
| A-RTOS | Q-RTOS | RTOS Proof-of-Concept | Provide a proof-of-concept RTOS. In the OFERA project, we chose [NuttX](http://nuttx.org/), because it is largely POSIX compatible and thus eases porting. There are also experiments based on [RIOT](https://www.riot-os.org/) (cf. [github.com/astralien3000/riot-ros2](https://github.com/astralien3000/riot-ros2)) and FreeRTOS (cf. [github.com/ros2/ros2_embedded_freertos](https://github.com/ros2/ros2_embedded_freertos)) |
| A-BUILD-META | Q-BUILD | Meta-Build | Explores a meta-build approach to transform ROS 2 CMakeLists.txt to RTOS-specific build instructions. |

> | A-BUILD-NUTTX | Q-BUILD | NuttX-specific build | OFERA has integrated (parts of) micro-ROS directly as an app in the [NuttX build](https://github.com/ROBOTIS-GIT/OpenCR/tree/feature-ROS2-micrortps/arduino/opencr_arduino/opencr/libraries/ROS2) as well as a library. |

Reviewer 2: Is this URL correct? It is pointing to Robotis' GitHub
It comes from the base branch but just noticed it here.

Author: Yeah, this is connected to my [previous comment](https://github.com/microROS/design/pull/4/files/9dd5336f10e874c5c619954a028a41583f6ea121#diff-f2269aa6e37c4229f8bc1760c8d09671R65). I'm not sure which URL we should be putting but I'd encourage us to refer to our work (since we're claiming "_OFERA has integrated ..._") or simply change the fact that OFERA has done it and keep the URL as is.

Author: @BorjaOuterelo any update on this or shall we move forward?

Reviewer 2: @vmayoral I think that we need to link to our work regarding NuttX build here, if possible.
Just noted that the URL is pointing to some other place, even it does not look to be working for me, at least.
That URL has nothing to do with NuttX build. I think it is a typo.
If we don't have a public URL for NuttX work, I propose to have only mentions.

Author: Ok, thanks. That works for me very well.

I'll make the appropriate changes to remove the URL.

Author: @BorjaOuterelo https://github.com/microROS/design/pull/6/commits/de0fd3f2c98e3d9fbed06aaa4dcd8204b1a11c0f provided a fix.

Good to go?

Author: I'll assume that's the case but let me know if you require any further change and I'll be happy to propose it.

Reviewer 2: All good here.
Thanks!

| A-BUILD-META | Q-BUILD | Meta-Build | Explores a meta-build approach to transform ROS 2 CMakeLists.txt to RTOS-specific build instructions. | TODO |
| A-BUILD-NUTTX | Q-BUILD | NuttX-specific build | OFERA has integrated (parts of) micro-ROS directly as an app in the NuttX build. |TODO |
| A-BUILD-ARDUINO | Q-BUILD | Arduino Build | Robotis has explored building all the libraries using the Arduino IDE. This required some manual changes and thus does not scale, but can get you off the ground. | TODO |

> | A-BUILD-NUTTX-LIB | Q-BUILD | NuttX-specific build as library | OFERA has integrated (parts of) micro-ROS directly as a library in the NuttX build. |TODO |

Reviewer 3: I see that there is a difference between app- and libary-based integration, but maybe we should update A-BUILD-NUTTX to include both, rather than have two items?

Author: Agreed. https://github.com/microROS/design/pull/6/commits/08d7cf33821f9dacc2053042688112b0e3db37e1.

@iluetkeb, let me know if that's acceptable. Feel free to commit on top if you have further suggestions.

### ROS2-based approaches
*   [**EU project OFERA**](http://ofera.eu/): The EU project OFERA (Open Framework for Embedded Robot Applications) aims at a ROS 2-compatible stack for MCUs in the range of STM32F4 or STM32L1, i.e. with possibly less than 100kB RAM. The project partners currently investigate of using the ROS 2 rmw, rcl and rclcpp layers as-is on the Micro XRCE-DDS implementation of the upcoming XRCE-DDS standard. In parallel, a more modular approach in the style of rosserial is investigated. In the project's use-cases, NuttX is considered as primary choice for the RTOS. Beyond the project page, additional details of the project results can be found at [microros.github.io/micro-ROS/](https://microros.github.io/micro-ROS/).

> * [Hardware Robot Operating System (H-ROS)](https://acutronicrobotics.com/modularity/H-ROS/) is an a standardized software and hardware infrastructure to create modular robot hardware. H-ROS is actively being used within the OFERA EU project to benchmark and prototype the capabilities of the ROS 2 stack against the ROS 2 embedded stack. In addition, H-ROS implements selected components of the ROS 2.0 stack for microcontrollers.

Reviewer: > to benchmark and prototype the capabilities of the ROS 2 stack against the ROS 2 embedded stack

I am not sure about this sentence - how we can actually do it. The use-case compares H-ROS against micro-ROS, which is a valuable thing (but something else than implied by this sentence, I think).

Author: Hello @adamdbrw, beyond the use case, we're introducing pieces of the embedded ROS 2 stack we're building into [our SoM](https://acutronicrobotics.com/modularity/som/). This is indeed different from the use case itself but the sentence, IMHO is valid based on the capabilities embedded into the H-ROS SoM.

Let me know if this is valid for you or you need further clarifications. Happy to state this in the text if you consider it necessary. I was just trying to be brief.

Reviewer: It's ok for me, thank you!
